Suggest a concrete LTS version to be used as Jenkins baseline (#3630)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/developer/plugin-development/choosing-jenkins-baseline.adoc

Your plugin's POM controls which version of Jenkins it is building/testing against.

== Choosing a version

You need to balance compatibility and features:

* *Keeping the Jenkins version your plugin builds against low* will allow more users to install and use your plugin.
In particular, the LTS Release Line is based on slightly older releases to provide a more stable experience for conservative users.
* *Building against recent Jenkins versions* allows you to use recently added core features and API from your plugin.
You will also use that newer version for `mvn hpi:run`, so it may be easier to test your plugin with newer Jenkins releases.
Additionally, since features are sometimes moved from core into plugins, depending on a more recent Jenkins version will make your plugin's dependencies on what used to be core features explicit, otherwise your plugin will not work.

> * *Use at least the minimum version supported by the update center*, the supported update center versions can be found at link:https://updates.jenkins.io[updates.jenkins.io], at the time of writing (2020-03) this is 2.164.x.

Reviewer: Update the example minimum version for Aug 2020?
```suggestion
* *Use at least the minimum version supported by the update center*, the supported update center versions can be found at link:https://updates.jenkins.io[updates.jenkins.io], at the time of writing (August 2020) this is 2.176.x.
```

Reviewer 2: It’s recommend 2.204 elsewhere should it go to that instead? But this is fine too

> * *Use at least the minimum version supported by the update center*, the supported update center versions can be found at link:https://updates.jenkins.io[updates.jenkins.io], at the time of writing (August 2020) this is 2.176.x.

Reviewer 3: This has the problem that it's not sure that these are always starting at .1, so this contradicts advice further down. Dynamic tiers do not go by baselines, but individual releases.

Author: > This has the problem that it's not sure that these are always starting at .1, so this contradicts advice further down.

Which advice? I think a plugin developer will be smart enough to select the .2 version if there is no .1 version.

Maybe it would help that we explicitly set the recommended baseline version when we select the new LTS baseline. That means this document (or another one?) needs to change with every LTS minor version.

Reviewer 3: I am referring to this advice:

> When setting the Jenkins version please also make sure to use the .1 patch version of the LTS version: 2.204.1, or 2.222.1.

The way update-center2 currently works is that it only looks at the release date and goes back 1 year, so the oldest supported release there will not be a .1 release.

Of course this also says "at least" and if we consider these version requirements ("not older than", "only .1") as a sort of "Venn diagram" then the area of overlap will be the reasonable choices.

But I do wonder whether we can rewrite this page to present all of these considerations, and perhaps even make the versions we consider good choices explicit. Can probably even be automated, especially once https://github.com/jenkins-infra/update-center2/pull/424 gives access to `tiers.json`.

Reviewer 4: I would say at least use the oldest line supported by the `bom`…so you can _use_ the BOM, and keep it fresh with Dependabot.

There are link:https://stats.jenkins.io/pluginversions/[statistics of core versions by plugin] that can help you decide. These are updated monthly.

== Suggested minimum version

General tip: When upgrading, choose the link:/changelog-stable/[newest LTS version] that doesn't alienate the majority of users of your latest few releases (by requiring a newer Jenkins than they have).

If you do not have special requirements then a good idea is to support the latest three
LTS minor versions. This helps to ensure that teams that are slower at adapting new Jenkins versions 

> will not be forced to update their Jenkins too frequently. Additionally, other plugins that 

Reviewer: I'm not understanding your point of disagreement, @daniel-beck, can you explain further?

I think this paragraph is trying to guide plugin maintainers to choose a minimum required Jenkins version that includes a significant portion of their users.  I don't think it is trying to claim that the Jenkins project or the Jenkins security team provide support for Jenkins core releases of anything other than the current LTS release line.

As a specific example, when choosing the minimum Jenkins version that the git plugin would support, I checked the installation statistics for the git plugin and decided based on installation patterns that Jenkins 2.204.1 was a good choice for the minimum required Jenkins version because that would not force a Jenkins version upgrade for over 60% of the users that were running a recent release of the plugin.

I don't think that you're recommending that plugins prefer to require the most recent LTS release line as their minimum Jenkins version, but maybe I've misunderstood your intent?

> will not be forced to update their Jenkins too frequently. Additionally, other plugins that 

Reviewer 3: Depends on security content in recent releases; but to me it sends mixed signals when we recommend plugin maintainers choose a baseline that is known to have security vulnerabilities specifically to allow administrators to postpone updating.

> will not be forced to update their Jenkins too frequently. Additionally, other plugins that 

Author: The baseline is only a compile dependency, so I do not understand your point. I think everybody developing Jenkins plugins recommends the latest LTS when someone asks which version to install. 

Or do you mean that we should remove the reasoning "This helps to ensure that teams that are slower at adapting new Jenkins versions will not be forced to update their Jenkins too frequently."

> will not be forced to update their Jenkins too frequently. Additionally, other plugins that 

Reviewer 3: > Or do you mean that we should remove the reasoning "This helps to ensure that teams that are slower at adapting new Jenkins versions will not be forced to update their Jenkins too frequently."

Yes, the justification we give here undermines our general message to keep Jenkins up to date and especially to take security issues seriously. I don't think we've gone two consecutive LTS baselines in recent years without at least one security update.

depend on your plugin also need to upgrade their minimum Jenkins version to your Jenkins version, 
otherwise the injected tests will fail.

Example: if we are currently at Jenkins 2.248 then the latest LTS version is 
2.235.x. Then it would make sense to also support 2.222.x and 2.204.x. When setting the Jenkins version
please also make sure to use the .1 patch version of the LTS version: 2.204.1, or 2.222.1. Using

> a newer patch version like 2.222.6 causes  build problems in depending plugins that depend on the

Reviewer 3: This explanation makes no sense to me, I responded in the mailing list thread.

Author: Here are some problems that are caused by plugins updating their baseline. My plugin had a baseline of 2.204.4, the same baseline was used in my ATH tests. It depends directly or indirectly on two API plugins: snakeyaml-api-plugin and jackson2-api-plugin. These plugins have been recently updated to 2.204.6 and 2.222.4, respectively. This caused failures for the maven-enforcer, the generated injected integration tests, and the UI tests for my plugins. And not because of a bug - just because of an inconsistent Jenkins baseline selection.

Reviewer 4: I do not get it. If your baseline is 2.204.x then just do not pick newer versions of these plugins as `test`-scoped dependencies, unless and until you update your own baseline. Of course if you use the `bom` then you do not need to even think about this issue for covered dependencies.
